# goexcep
exception in Go for the nostalgic

Go does not have exceptions. Go allows functions to return an error type in addition to a result via its support for multiple return values. By declaring an error return value you indicate to the caller that this method could go wrong. If a function returns a value and an error, then you can’t assume anything about the value until you’ve inspected the error. 

Now, let's examine a few go functionalities that we will be using in our exception implementation:

From the Go documentation, we learned that:

A **defer** statement pushes a function call onto a list. The list of saved calls is executed after the surrounding function returns. Defer is commonly used to simplify functions that perform various clean-up actions. A few things to keep in mind:
- Deferred function's arguments are evaluated when the defer statement is evaluated. In this example, the expression "i" is evaluated when the Println call is deferred. The deferred call will print "0" after the function returns.
```go
func a() {
    i := 0
    defer fmt.Println(i)
    i++
    return
}
```
- Deferred function calls are executed in Last In First Out order after the surrounding function returns. This function prints "3210":
```go
func b() {
    for i := 0; i < 4; i++ {
        defer fmt.Print(i)
    }
}
```
- Deferred functions may read and assign to the returning function's named return values.In this example, a deferred function increments the return value i after the surrounding function returns. Thus, this function returns 2:
```go
func c() (i int) {
    defer func() { i++ }()
    return 1
}
```

**Panic** is a built-in function that stops the ordinary flow of control and begins panicking. When the function F calls panic, execution of F stops, any deferred functions in F are executed normally, and then F returns to its caller. To the caller, F then behaves like a call to panic. The process continues up the stack until all functions in the current goroutine have retu    rned, at which point the program crashes. Panics can be initiated by invoking panic directly. They can also be caused by runtime errors, such as out-of-bounds array accesses.

**Recover** is a built-in function that regains control of a panicking goroutine. Recover is only useful inside deferred functions. During normal execution, a call to recover will return nil and have no other effect. If the current goroutine is panicking, a call to recover will capture the value given to panic and resume normal execution.

Having said that, we are going to define an _exception_ object as:
```go
type goexcep struct {
	e      chan int
	excep  bool
	errmsg string
}
```
Where
- The channel **e** is used to synchronize a _try_ and _catch_ private methods. 
- The boolean **excep** is used to specify whether an exception occured or not.
- The string **errmsg** is used to hold the error message corresponding to the exception.

The private _try_ method takes a function as a parameter. This function corresponds to the code we would like to wrap with our exception handling system. The _try_ method has a differed function that recovers from a _panic_ call, whether it is generated by the go runtime, or by the code itself with using the _Throw_ method.

```go
    defer func() {
        if r := recover(); r != nil {
            // we are recovering from a panic
            fmt.Println("Recovering from", r)
            if err, ok := r.(error); ok {
                g.errmsg = err.Error()
            } else {
                g.errmsg = fmt.Sprintf("%v", r)
            }
            // we exit with an exception - feed the exception channel
            g.excep = true
            g.e <- 1
        }
    }()
```
Here we first check if we are recovering from a call to **panic**. When this is the case (test is true), then we extract the error message and notify the exception channel.

The _catch_ method waits for the exception channel to be unblocked. This is accomplished when an exception occurs from the recovery of a call to panic, or when the code finishes normally.

```go
	<-g.e
	if g.excep == true {
		return errors.New(g.errmsg)
	}
	return nil
```
_catch_ returns an error that is nil when there was no exception.

## API
// try and catch exception generated in function _f_
func (g *goexcep) TryAndCatch(f func()) error 

// creates an exception object
func NewGoexcep() *goexcep

// Throw - Throws an exception
func Throw(msg string) 


## Examples
The following illustrates the capture of different type of exceptions (runtime, code generated) as well as an example of nested exceptions

Triggers a runtime error (division by 0)
```go
func runtime() {
	a, b := 1, 0
	c := a / b
	fmt.Println(c)
}
```
Triggers a throw for a particular reason
```go
func letitthrow() {
	goe.Throw("let's throw an exception")
}
```

Nicely behaving function
```go
func goodboy() {
	fmt.Println("It's all good...")
}

```

Nested exception
```go
func nestedProblems() {
	var e2 = goe.NewGoexcep()
	if err := e2.TryAndCatch(letitthrow); err != nil {
		// catch code
		fmt.Println("Caught from inner try catch:",err.Error())
		goe.Throw(fmt.Sprintf("Re-Throwning %v", err.Error()))
	}
	
}
```

```go
func main() {
	e := goe.NewGoexcep()
	if err := e.TryAndCatch(runtime); err != nil {
		// catch code
		fmt.Println("Caught:",err.Error())
	}
	if err := e.TryAndCatch(goodboy); err != nil {
		// catch code
		fmt.Println("Caught:",err.Error())
	}
	if err := e.TryAndCatch(nestedProblems); err != nil {
		// catch code
		fmt.Println("Caught:",err.Error())
	}
}
```

The ebaove code returns the following messages

```text
Recovering from runtime error: integer divide by zero
Caught: runtime error: integer divide by zero
It's all good...
Recovering from let's throw an exception
Caught from inner try catch: let's throw an exception
Recovering from Re-Throwning let's throw an exception
Caught: Re-Throwning let's throw an exception
```
